
1. What is the actual name of CMPT 381?
Implementation of Graphical User Interfaces

2. What was the first videogame to contain a so-called "easter egg"?
Adventure (Atari 2600, 1979)

3. What is the boundary between the human and the system in the architecture diagram for interactive systems?
The interface

4. What is the bottom layer of the layered model of interactive systems?
Devices

5. Name a GUI toolkit that is not JavaFX or Android
Swing, AWT, Qt, WPF, X, etc.

6. Is the Desktop the same thing as the Window Manager?
No - the desktop is just an application

7. What class does a JavaFX interactive system extend?
Application

8. What company did Steve Jobs steal the ideas from for the Mac user interface?
Xerox

9. What class do all Android widgets inherit from?
View

10. Is a colour picker widget an abstract model widget?
No

11. What kind of widget is a tab pane?
A container widget

12. What's an example of a pseudoevent?
Filtered/high-level, window event, programmer-defined event

13.  Give an example of a convenience method for adding an event handler to a Pane in JavaFX
Pane.setOnMouseMoved

14. Which are processed first, event handlers or event filters?
Event filters

15. What kind of layout manager in JavaFX lays out widgets around the edges of the window, and one in the middle?
BorderPane

16. Name two elements of MVC and state whether they should have direct visibility to each other

17. Between which two elements of MVC would the controller / gatekeeper pattern be used?
Between Controller and Model (Model should use a public API)

18. What's the name of the class where you would store a selection?
InteractionModel

19. What's a type of interactive system that is primarily based on verbs?
Command language

20. What is an example of a verb in a direct-manipulation system?
Click, Drag, Release

21. What state is missing in a touch screen, compared to a mouse-based system?
Hover state

22. What are the three things that you should label for a transition in a controller state diagram?
Event, Context, Side Effects

23. What are the four channels in the RGBA colour model?
Red, Green, Blue, Alpha

24. Which kind of drawing is best for photographs?
Pixel model

25. If you have multiple views in a graphical application, what are the minimum and maximum values that you should use to store coordinates of the objects in the application?
0.0 - 1.0

26. How does setting the clip rectangle make a system more efficient?
It doesn't have to draw the entire screen

27. Name the three main graphical transformations
Translation, Rotation, Scaling

28. If you want to rotate an object around its centre point, what do you have to do before applying the rotation transformation?
Translate to the origin

29. In terms of Z-order, which item in the model is guaranteed to be drawn on top?
the first item, or the selected item

30. What is the best language for building a GUI interface to track the killer's IP?
Visual Basic

31. What Java construct is used to let the model contain both Blobs and Groups?
A common interface / the Groupable interface

32. What is the name of the standard for describing different types of data that can be stored on the clipboard (or in an email message)?
MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)

33. What is the date and time of the 381 final exam?
Tuesday April 10 at 9:00am

34. What is the room number of the 381 final?
Engineering 1B71

